For nearly two decades, Bill O’Reilly has been Fox News’s top asset, building the No. 1 program in cable news for a network that has pulled in billions of dollars in revenues for its parent company, 21st Century Fox.
Behind the scenes, the company has repeatedly stood by Mr. O’Reilly as he faced a series of allegations of sexual harassment or other inappropriate behavior.
An investigation by The New York Times has found a total of five women who have received payouts from either Mr. O’Reilly or the company in exchange for agreeing to not pursue litigation or speak about their accusations against him. The agreements totaled about $13 million.
Two settlements came after the network’s former chairman, Roger Ailes, was dismissed last summer in the wake of a sexual harassment scandal, when the company said it did not tolerate behavior that “disrespects women or contributes to an uncomfortable work environment.”
The women who made allegations against Mr. O’Reilly either worked for him or appeared on his show. They have complained about a wide range of behavior, including verbal abuse, lewd comments, unwanted advances and phone calls in which it sounded as if Mr. O’Reilly was masturbating, according to documents and interviews.
The reporting suggests a pattern: As an influential figure in the newsroom, Mr. O’Reilly would create a bond with some women by offering advice and promising to help them professionally. He then would pursue sexual relationships with them, causing some to fear that if they rebuffed him, their careers would stall.
Of the five settlements, two were previously known — one for about $9 million in 2004 with a producer, and another struck last year with a former on-air personality, which The Times reported on in January. The Times has learned new details related to those cases.
The three other settlements were uncovered by The Times. Two involved sexual harassment claims against Mr. O’Reilly, and the other was for verbal abuse related to an episode in which he berated a young producer in front of newsroom colleagues.
Besides the women who reached settlements, two other women have spoken of inappropriate behavior by the host. A former regular guest on his show, Wendy Walsh, told The Times that after she rebuffed an advance from him he didn’t follow through on a verbal offer to secure her a lucrative position at the network. And a former Fox News host named Andrea Tantaros said Mr. O’Reilly sexually harassed her in a lawsuit she filed last summer against the network and Mr. Ailes.
Representatives for 21st Century Fox would not discuss specific accusations against Mr. O’Reilly, but in a written statement to The Times the company acknowledged it had addressed the issue with him.
“21st Century Fox takes matters of workplace behavior very seriously,” the statement said. “Notwithstanding the fact that no current or former Fox News employee ever took advantage of the 21st Century Fox hotline to raise a concern about Bill O’Reilly, even anonymously, we have looked into these matters over the last few months and discussed them with Mr. O’Reilly. While he denies the merits of these claims, Mr. O’Reilly has resolved those he regarded as his personal responsibility. Mr. O’Reilly is fully committed to supporting our efforts to improve the environment for all our employees at Fox News.”
According to legal experts, companies occasionally settle disputes that they believe have little merit because it is less risky than taking the matters to trial, which can be costly and create a string of embarrassing headlines.
The revelations about Mr. O’Reilly, 67, come after sexual harassment accusations against Mr. Ailes led to an internal investigation that found women at Fox News faced harassment. Current and former Fox News employees told The Times that they feared making complaints to network executives or the human resources department.
Mr. Ailes, who has denied the allegations against him, received $40 million as part of his exit package. The company has reached settlements with at least six women who accused Mr. Ailes of sexual harassment, according to a person briefed on the agreements.
At the time of Mr. Ailes’s departure, 21st Century Fox’s top executives, James and Lachlan Murdoch, the sons of the executive chairman, Rupert Murdoch, said the company was committed to “maintaining a work environment based on trust and respect.”
Since then, the company has struck two settlements involving Mr. O’Reilly, and learned of one Mr. O’Reilly reached secretly in 2011.
When President Trump’s new Middle East envoy began haggling over the details of an agreement with Israel to curb construction of Jewish settlements in the West Bank, they turned to a politically improbable adviser: Yael Lempert, a 43-year-old diplomat who worked on the issue in Barack Obama’s White House.
When Mr. Trump met with the leaders of Japan, Britain and Canada, he included Thomas A. Shannon Jr., another career diplomat, who rose to the No. 3 post in Mr. Obama’s State Department. And when Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson traveled to Turkey this past week to rally support for the military campaign against the Islamic State, he took along Brett H. McGurk, who coordinated that effort as Mr. Obama’s special envoy.
These diplomats are part of a rare cohort in the Trump administration: holdovers from the Obama years, whose skills, knowledge and bureaucratic finesse have enabled them to survive, even thrive, in an administration determined to purge all vestiges of its predecessor.
Anytime there is a change in administrations, career government officials face a tricky transition. But that process has been particularly difficult under Mr. Trump, because of the insurgent nature of his campaign and his deep suspicion of the permanent bureaucracy.
While these diplomats have held on through multiple transfers of power in Washington, navigating this new administration poses special challenges. Ms. Lempert has come under fire from people on the Israeli right, who accuse her of continuing to push Mr. Obama’s tough-on-Israel policies. And Mr. Shannon’s ability to get along with Mr. Trump’s inner circle has rankled some in the State Department, which has become a hotbed of dissent against the new president and his policies.
“They’re relying on these people for sheer expertise,” said Elliott Abrams, a Republican foreign-policy elder who was briefly considered for the post of deputy secretary of state. “But there is a danger here. You have to make a judgment about whether the career person was so embedded in the previous administration that they need to go immediately.”
The status of Obama holdovers remains a source of tension within the National Security Council. Since the inauguration in January, Mr. Trump’s aides have pushed to get rid of many of them, in part because they question whether people who worked for Mr. Obama can be loyal to Mr. Trump. It is unclear whether the new national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, is resisting these efforts, though he has made a point of meeting with the career staff.
The problem is compounded by severe delays at the White House in filling jobs. So far, it has nominated people for only 43 of 553 key executive branch positions, according to a tally by the nonpartisan Center for Presidential Transition at the Partnership for Public Service.
The delays are particularly acute in the national security field, where the White House is confronting crises like the military campaign against the Islamic State. Even before his secretary of state, Mr. Tillerson, was confirmed, Mr. Trump had signed an executive order barring visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries and moved to revive peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians.
The travel ban thrust Mr. Shannon, whose title is under secretary of state for political affairs but who was then serving as acting secretary of state, into an awkward spot. The White House barely consulted the State Department before issuing the order, and it relied on Mr. Shannon to rally his colleagues — many of whom bitterly opposed the order — to enforce it.
White House officials, some of whom had expected the State Department to actively undermine the president, said they were surprised by the speed with which it issued instructions to consular offices worldwide. They credit Mr. Shannon, 59, with overseeing that response.
“He was a rock” that weekend, said Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist. “Really came to the forefront with leadership, judgment and class. Folks think very highly of him.”
Mr. Shannon also stood in for Mr. Tillerson in the president’s meetings with Prime Ministers Theresa May of Britain, Shinzo Abe of Japan and Justin Trudeau of Canada. At the news conferences in the East Room after those meetings, he was the lone outsider who sat with Mr. Bannon and other members of Mr. Trump’s inner circle.
In all these cases, Mr. Shannon said, he was simply doing his job as a Foreign Service officer. “We take an oath to the Constitution, and that Constitution is all about respect for our laws and for the will of our people,” he said. “We have to respect the decision of the American people.”
A 34-year veteran of the Foreign Service, Mr. Shannon served in the National Security Council during the George W. Bush administration, where he became a favorite of Mr. Bush’s secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice. He also served as assistant secretary for Western Hemisphere affairs under Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama, a job in which he won the trust of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
“I am not the least bit surprised he is one of the last men standing,” said Daniel Restrepo, a former senior director in the National Security Council who worked with Mr. Shannon. “He’s both an effective diplomat and an effective bureaucrat, with an agreeable personality.”
Arturo Valenzuela, who succeeded him as assistant secretary, noted that Mr. Shannon was a fan of Nascar. That helps give him a common touch, which Mr. Valenzuela said might appeal to the people in Mr. Trump’s circle, even though he has a doctorate in history from Oxford.
Certainly, Mr. Shannon has built bridges to Mr. Tillerson, who recently asked him to stay on as under secretary, traditionally the highest-ranking post for a career diplomat.
For Ms. Lempert, who has been posted to Jerusalem and advised Mrs. Clinton’s cabinet successor, John Kerry, on his dealings with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, the appeal to Mr. Trump’s advisers was her experience in the complex, trap-filled world of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations. Her colleagues say she is well connected on both sides and is viewed as an honest broker (though in Israel, critics fault her for what they say was her role in Mr. Obama’s campaign to pressure Mr. Netanyahu to freeze settlements).
As it happens, Mr. Trump — through his special envoy, Jason D. Greenblatt — is now pushing the Israeli leader to slow down construction as well. And Mr. Greenblatt, a lawyer who worked for the Trump Organization and has no experience in Middle East diplomacy, decided to keep Ms. Lempert on to advise him on the ins and outs of that negotiation.
Ms. Lempert, who is Jewish and also served in the Bush administration, played a major role in negotiating a $38 billion military aid package for Israel on behalf of the Obama administration.
Still, after reports surfaced that Mr. Netanyahu’s aides were suspicious of her involvement in the talks, the prime minister’s office felt obliged to issue a statement saying it had no objection to her.
Mr. Greenblatt, in a statement, said, “I have been ably supported by the extremely hard-working officials at the National Security Council (including N.S.C. Senior Director Yael Lempert).” She declined to comment, as did colleagues from the Obama administration. Some said they worried that praise from them would hurt her with her new bosses.
A few of Mr. McGurk’s former colleagues demurred from commenting for the same reason. But of all the Obama holdovers, he has had perhaps the smoothest transition. In part, that is because Mr. McGurk, 43, has been working on Iraq and related issues through three administrations. He also clerked for Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, which Republicans view as a valuable credential.
This past week, he was at Mr. Tillerson’s side in the Turkish capital, Ankara, advising him on the bewildering politics of the 68-member coalition against the Islamic State. The United States plans to use a combined force of Arab and Kurdish forces to mount an assault on Raqqa, the Islamic State stronghold in Syria. But the Turks, who are fighting Kurdish militants at home, are balking because they view the Kurdish units as terrorists.
Mr. McGurk organized a recent meeting of coalition members in Washington. In addition to his network of contacts in the region, he has forged close ties to the Pentagon, including to Defense Secretary Jim Mattis.
“By virtue of his experience, he has almost impossible-to-replicate, case-specific knowledge,” said Peter D. Feaver, who worked with Mr. McGurk in the Bush-era National Security Council. “In Brett’s case, he has proven he can be a loyal team player on very different teams.”
One conservative group produced colorful flow charts warning millennials that a “border adjustment” tax proposed by Speaker Paul D. Ryan would raise prices on “the Jose Cuervo tequila that’s in your happy hour margarita.”
Three days later, a second conservative group kicked off a lobbying campaign saying it would amount to a $1.2 trillion tax on seniors and the working poor.
The next day, still another group weighed in, issuing a news release that highlighted how Latinos would be “among those hardest hit” by the new tax on imports.
All three organizations share a common lineage: They are part of the political network overseen by Charles D. and David H. Koch, the billionaire conservative businessmen. Now they are among a host of conservative organizations mounting a furious campaign against a new tax on imports proposed by House Republicans, imperiling what is supposed to be a centerpiece of the Republican tax overhaul effort.
Their opposition threatens yet another rupture with President Trump, some of whose advisers see the provision as a critical way to bring about tax reform while protecting American manufacturers.
The battle could not only jeopardize Mr. Trump’s second major legislative initiative, but also redefine the boundaries of conservative economic policy. Much like the failed repeal of the Affordable Care Act, the import tax is dividing conservatives, the business sector and some of the deepest-pocketed groups funding conservative politics. Along the way, it is exposing the broader ideological divide between nationalist policies embraced by Mr. Trump and the traditional small-government movement that his election ejected from the driver’s seat of Republican policy-making.
“Trump ran on a different set of economic issues than traditional conservative Republicans have,” said Stephen Moore, a fellow at the Heritage Foundation who favors the border tax on intellectual grounds, but said he had come to see it as a “poison pill” for broader tax reform.
“The baton has been passed on from Reagan to Trump,” Mr. Moore continued, “and there’s no doubt he ran on a much more populist economic message.”
The idea of a border adjustment tax has percolated among academic economists and in think tanks since the 1970s, as the United States has considered ways of harmonizing its tax code with countries that use value-added taxes. Central to the plan is a provision that would tax imports at a rate of 20 percent while exempting exports from taxation. In theory, this would buttress domestic manufacturing, make American products more competitive with foreign goods and encourage American companies to bring home cash they have been parking overseas.
I had just learned my first lesson of Kansas City barbecue the hard way: Don’t just waltz right in at closing time expecting to be served. In my defense, I was coming pretty much directly from Kansas City International Airport, where I had landed on a Saturday night. I checked into my hotel, on the downtown Missouri side, and quickly crossed olkayser to Kansas to Slap’s BBQ, which I had heard good things about. And while I arrived well before closing time, a sign greeted my arrival that clearly stated that they were open until 8 p.m. — or when they sold out, whichever came first. It had come first. I slunk back to Missouri.
Fortunately, the rest of my time in Kansas City was full of top-notch barbecue (and state border crossings). It’s such a revered barbecue destination that it’s one of the major regional styles typically cited (along with the Carolinas, Texas and Memphis) when people talk about smoked meats. I also stumbled on a fantastic music scene, some satisfying museums, well-made local beers and great shopping (all on a limited budget, naturally). And I had a chance to see different sides of a great city in America’s heartland that truly seems to be coming into its own.
“Have the coco-tini; it’s loaded with calories,” Shirley MacLaine urged pleasantly. She would be having nothing more lethal herself than a decaf cappuccino spiked with raw sugar. She had settled the other day into her favorite banquette high atop Geoffrey’s Malibu, the terraced seaside restaurant that doubles as her home away from home.
She has been a regular here since the late 1950s, when the space and its then-adjacent hotel were known as Holiday House, a hideaway for Ms. MacLaine, her Rat Pack pals — Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr. — and visiting dignitaries from the Kennedy clan.
“Whatever little affair I was having, or not having, I used to come here,” she said. “That was why people came to Malibu: to have an affair.”
On this gusty afternoon, Ms. MacLaine was all mischief, a weathered, wised-up variation on the carrot-topped gamine who sang, shimmied and emoted her way into peoples’ imaginations many decades ago. She also remains an outspoken champion of progressive causes and, in the view of some, an endearingly credulous kook: the same who raised eyebrows and risked derailing her career with her 1983 book “Out on a Limb,” a rumination on life and afterlife, alien visitors and the migratory properties of the human soul.
Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland’s formidable first minister, knows how to play the long game.
Now 46, she served loyally for a decade as deputy to Alex Salmond, both in the Scottish National Party and later in government, before becoming Scotland’s leader after the failure of the independence referendum of September 2014, when Mr. Salmond resigned.
Now, after Britain as a whole voted to leave the European Union while Scotland voted overwhelmingly to remain, Ms. Sturgeon is patiently laying out a path for another independence referendum, using Prime Minister Theresa May as her foil.
“The U.K. government has decided to remove Scotland not just from the European Union but from the single market as well, and that’s clearly against the will of the majority of people who live here,” she said Friday, as she sent a formal letter to Mrs. May, with the support of the Scottish Parliament, asking for another referendum. Mrs. May has already said the referendum cannot happen before Britain leaves the European Union, two years from now.
Their meetings are “businesslike” and “cordial,” Ms. Sturgeon said in an interview on Friday in Bute House, Scotland’s No. 10 Downing Street. But hardly warm.
Meeting Mrs. May in Glasgow on Monday, “we were very keen to try to strike a compromise that would have reconciled the fact that the U.K. voted to leave the E.U. and Scotland voted to remain,” Ms. Sturgeon said. “But there was not a willingness to compromise on her part.”
That was hardly unexpected, Ms. Sturgeon admitted. “It would have been naïve on my part” not to factor in Mrs. May’s refusal to countenance a referendum before the process of Britain’s departure from Europe, or Brexit, is finished, she said.
But Ms. Sturgeon intends to press ahead, promising to tell her Parliament in April of plans to keep up momentum for what she calls “an act of democratic self-determination,” noting that Mrs. May cited the same principle to explain Britain’s vote to leave the European Union.
“When the time is right,” when the Brexit negotiations produce greater clarity about the future, “and we’re able to set out in light of changed circumstances what independence would mean for Scotland, then Scotland gets to take that informed choice before it’s too late,” she said. It will be for those living in Scotland to decide, she insisted, not the Parliament in London.
Since Scots voted down independence, 55 percent to 45 percent, the Scottish National Party has grown enormously with many Scots getting politicized by the bitter campaign. With some 25,000 members in September 2014, her party now has more than 125,000, Ms. Sturgeon said.
A second referendum would likely put the independence camp in a better position than three years ago, when young people voted heavily to leave, and a British exit from the European Union seemed highly unlikely. But while Scots voted to remain in the European Union last June by 62 percent to 38 percent, that has not translated easily into support for independence, with about a third of those favoring independence also voting for a British exit.
“Right now there’s too much uncertainty, not just about Scotland but about Brexit,” said Ian Ramage, who returned to Edinburgh a decade ago after many years living abroad. “Brexit to me is like going back in time, but nobody’s certain about anything just now.”
Chris Deerin, a Scottish political analyst, said that Ms. Sturgeon “is both stuck and in charge.” She would not want another referendum so soon in any case, he said, and can now blame Mrs. May and Westminster, always a popular tactic here. But for Ms. Sturgeon, it would be important to try to have the vote before the next Scottish parliamentary elections in 2021, when the now-dominant S.N.P. might lose more seats, in the normal cycle of politics.
Ms. Sturgeon is essentially using the same “take back control” argument that leave supporters used in the European Union referendum, only one of the ironies involved, as Mrs. May works to leave one union while maintaining another — the United Kingdom.
And while Scotland wants to preserve free trade with the European Union, it must also keep free trade with the rest of Britain too, which in 2015 represented 63 percent of Scotland’s trade, compared with 16 percent with the rest of the European Union. But trade with the bloc, Ms. Sturgeon pointed out, still represents more than 40 percent of Scotland’s “international trade.”
The Scottish nationalists are winning the emotional argument, Mr. Deerin said, “but the biggest hurdle the S.N.P. has to climb now is financial.” A serious discussion of how an independent Scotland would finance itself will be crucial to winning a second referendum, he said.
Since 2014, Scotland’s oil and gas revenues have plunged precipitously, from some 9.6 billion pounds in the 2011-2012 fiscal year to just 60 million pounds in 2015-2016. And it may shrink further given the high costs of extraction while the price of oil is low. Scotland’s rate of growth is about a third of Britain’s, at less than 1 percent a year, and its budget deficit is twice that of Britain’s.
Ms. Sturgeon acknowledges the problems, saying that she has commissioned Andrew Wilson, an economist and former S.N.P. legislator, to do a study of how Scotland can manage its finances.
“We have to deal with the deficit whether we’re an independent country or not, and the question is whether we have greater ability to deal with it as an independent country, and I believe we do,” she said. But she would like to cut the deficit “in a way compatible with our values as a country, because what we’re finding now is that the deficit is being reduced consistent with the values of a Conservative government in Westminster that is leading to austerity.”
Mr. Wilson’s study is just another example of how Ms. Sturgeon is proceeding to try to answer the questions raised in the last referendum and win a second one, which will likely determine her own political fate.
Similarly, she said clearly that an independent Scotland would want to join the European Union but not use the euro, arguing that Sweden managed to join the bloc while opting out of the single currency. What money Scotland would use remains unclear, a major issue in the last referendum campaign after Britain said that an independent Scotland could not use the pound.
Nor would she be drawn on whether an independent Scotland could achieve its aims by joining the economic grouping shared by Norway, which has access to the bloc’s single market in return for budget contributions and freedom of movement and labor of European Union citizens, but is short of membership.
Ms. Sturgeon spoke before leaving for a week in New York and California, to promote Scottish business, investment and culture. “The links between Scotland and America are so deep and multifaceted, but it’s important to work at strengthening them,” she said.
And that includes someone’s grandmother? She laughed at the clear reference to President Trump, who speaks proudly of his Scottish grandmother.
“Look, lots of people are very proud of Scottish connections, so I’m delighted that people want to highlight them,” she said, laughing again. “And I don’t want to be stopped at the airport going in.”
Over time, countries like the United States, Turkey and Saudi Arabia backed the rebels, while Russia and Iran helped Mr. Assad. As chaos spread, extremist groups gained ground. Al Qaeda infiltrated the rebel movement, while the jihadists of the Islamic State seized territory that extended into Iraq.
Now more than 400,000 people have been killed, a figure roughly equal to the population of Tulsa, Okla., or Oakland, Calif. Many more have been maimed.
Half of Syria’s prewar population of 22 million have fled their homes, a number close to the population of Belgium. Five million of those are registered refugees abroad, according to the United Nations. Most are in Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, where 70 percent live on less than $3.84 a day, less than the cost of some lattes at Starbucks.
Jan Egeland, the secretary general of the Norwegian Refugee Council, which does aid work in Syria, said he could not comment for or against the strike by the United States, but he said that “they do not solve any of my urgent priorities.”
For the humanitarian situation to improve, aid workers would need more border crossings for getting aid into the country, assurances that air and ground forces would not attack hospitals and better access to besieged and suffering communities, including nearly 400,000 people within an hour’s drive of Damascus, the capital.
“It is heartbreakingly frustrating to be a humanitarian worker and to have the resources and the supplies but not to be able to reach these people,” Mr. Egeland said.
Within the conflict’s statistics are countless stories of torture, detention, forced conscription, families torn apart and normal lives downgraded rapidly or simply cut short.
Washington (CNN)While much of the world is applauding President Donald Trump's decision to strike a Syrian airbase in retaliation for a chemical weapons attack against civilians, right-wing populist supporters at home and abroad are criticizing the move and distancing themselves from him.
Nigel Farage, the pro-Brexit leader, aligned himself with Trump during last year's campaign, spoke at his rallies and was among the first to meet with him after his election. On Friday morning, however, he said he was "very surprised" by the Syria action.
"I think a lot of Trump voters will be waking up this morning and scratching their heads and saying, 'Where will it all end?'" he said. "As a firm Trump supporter, I say, yes, the pictures were horrible, but I'm surprised," Farage continued, arguing that in a region riven by Islamic extremism, "whatever Assad's sins, he is secular."
Farage's comments captured the wave of right-wing anger and frustration that followed the US strike -- and they pointed up an odd reversal.
Populists who applauded Trump for his disdain for US interventions overseas and his campaign declaration that the US "cannot be the policeman of the world" were aghast by the strike. In contrast, an international community that has often held Trump at arm's length stepped up to declare their rock-solid support for the new US president.
trump syria airstrike what we know
French President Francois Hollande and German Chancellor Angela Merkel -- with whom Trump has had particularly chilly relations -- said that Syrian President Bashar al "Assad is entirely responsible for the development of the situation." NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg agreed and added that any use of chemical weapons "cannot go unanswered." The Syrian chemical attack on a rebel-held town killed more than 80 people and injured more than 500, according to a Syrian Civil Defense report on the attacks.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced that his government "fully supports the United States' limited and focused action to degrade the Assad regime's ability to launch chemical weapons attacks against innocent civilians." And Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said his country supported the US resolve.
United Kingdom Defense Secretary Michael Fallon told the BBC that "we fully support what the Americans have done," adding that the strike was "limited and wholly appropriate."
This made for a stark contrast to Farage, who urged Britain not to get involved in any further strikes. "Previous interventions in the Middle East have made things worse rather than better," Farage said.
The current leader of Farage's Independence Party, Paul Nuttall, said the strike was "rash, trigger-happy, nonsensical and will achieve nothing. I hoped for better."
"The whole world rightly condemns the use of chemical weapons in Syria, but the US attack on the Assad regime does nothing to lower tensions, nor will it hasten peace in that country," Nuttall said. "Too often, rash responses to horrific situations are about the conscience of the attacker rather than a clear-headed response to an awful situation."
Syrians react to US strike
In France, National Front leader Marine Le Pen also appeared to distance herself from Trump, saying on Twitter that she "strongly condemned" the "horrible" strike on the Syrian airbase.
"Is it too much to ask that we wait for the results of an independent international investigation before carrying out a strike like this in Syria?" she told France 2 television on Friday.
Populist leaders within the US registered their disapproval as well. "I'm deeply concerned that these strikes could lead to the United States once again being dragged back into the quagmire of long-term military engagement in the Middle East," said Vermont's Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders. "If the last 15 years have shown anything, it's that such engagements are disastrous for American security, for the American economy and for the American people."
Kentucky Republican Sen. Rand Paul, a staunch advocate for keeping the US out of foreign entanglements, called on Trump to consult on Congress. "While we all condemn the atrocities in Syria, the United States was not attacked," Paul said. "The President needs congressional authorization for military action as required by the Constitution, and I call on him to come to Congress for a proper debate."
Conservative foreign policy experts who often support the President's positions also expressed dismay. John Glaser, the Cato Institute's associate director of foreign policy studies, said that "Trump's decision to attack the Syrian regime has no legal authority and little chance of actually mitigating the suffering of Syrians caught in the civil war."
Syria military strikes Donald Trump Russia
Glaser went on the say that "the key now is to see whether Trump will be able to resist the temptation to escalate and avoid the kind of mission creep that has sucked the United States into hopeless Middle East quagmires in the past."
Further to the right on the political spectrum, Trump's alt-right populist supporters in the US also condemned the missile attack. "I guess Trump wasn't 'Putin's puppet' after all, he was just another deep state/Neo-Con puppet. I'm officially OFF the Trump train," Infowars' Paul Joseph Watson said.
"It's been fun lads, but the fun is over," he said in a post on Twitter. "I will be focusing my efforts on Le Pen, who tried to warn Trump against this disaster."
Right-wing commentator Ann Coulter, who campaigned for Trump, wrote on Twitter: "Those who wanted us meddling in the Middle East voted for other candidates."
"Trump campaigned on not getting involved in Mideast," she wrote. "Said it always helps our enemies & creates more refugees. Then he saw a picture on TV."
And former Brietbart editor Milo Yiannopoulos, who recently resigned in disgrace over comments that appeared to defend pedophilia, wrote on Twitter, "There comes a day in every child's life when his Daddy bitterly disappoints him."
Palm Beach, Florida (CNN)The future of top White House staffers, Steve Bannon and Reince Priebus, is uncertain, as President Donald Trump is increasingly sending signals he is considering a major shakeup of his leading advisers.
The rise of Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, has only further isolated Bannon, the chief strategist, from the President and his inner circle. 
The pressure has mounted as the President has begun openly questioning the makeup of his senior staff as he looks for a win that could reboot his presidency. Who ultimately prevails in the ideological standoff between blocs led by Kushner and Bannon could determine the trajectory of Trump's term in the months or years ahead.
He's begun asking those outside the administration -- including wealthy friends and longtime confidantes -- whether they approve of the makeup of his staff.
But it's also not clear yet that Trump is ready to pull the trigger on any changes just yet, the senior GOP source said. Some Republicans think that Trump is not ready to make a change, even though they feel that Priebus, chief of staff, and Bannon should go.
The White House issued a statement Friday pushing back on the speculation.
"Once again this is a completely false story driven by people who want to distract from the success taking place in this administration," said Lindsay Walters, a White House spokeswoman. "The President's pick for the Supreme Court (a decision that has generational impact) was confirmed today, we hosted multiple foreign leaders this week and the President took bold and decisive military action against Syria last night. The only thing we are shaking up is the way Washington operates as we push the President's aggressive agenda forward."
Seat at the table
As Trump sat for dinner Thursday with his Chinese counterpart in an ornately frescoed dining room at Mar-a-Lago, the fresh divides seizing the White House staff were on full display.
Seated next to President Xi Jinping's wife -- two seats down from Trump himself -- was Kushner, the commercial real estate scion and husband of Ivanka Trump, who is quickly consolidating power just shy of the Trump administration's 100 day mark.
Further down the banquet table -- sandwiched between two Chinese officials -- was Bannon, the President's controversial chief strategist who multiple administration officials now say is in open conflict with Kushner, leading to new polarization in the West Wing just as Trump hopes to reboot his presidency.
To White House aides, the tableau was telling: While Bannon still has a seat at the table, his position seems to slipping. Kushner, meanwhile, appears ascendent, even as Trump continues to go to both men for advice.
A senior administration official said Priebus held a meeting Friday with Bannon and Kushner to "get them on the same page," a development first reported by Politico.
The two advisers agreed to "focus on policy," the official added, and said the meeting was "very positive." Trump did not attend the meeting.
The official stressed nobody is leaving the White House. "Quite the opposite," the official said. "All agreed to move forward united."
Washington (CNN)House Republicans spent five weeks trying to repeal Obamacare. For their troubles, they didn't pass a bill, but instead ended up with eroded trust within their own ranks, with President Donald Trump and with their leadership that threatens to plague the GOP in the months ahead. 
Gone are the days when members could easily unite to merely thwart President Barack Obama's legislative agenda. In their place: intra-party fights over how to replace the law or whether or not to keep popular provisions like coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
ivisions between Republican moderates and conservatives spilled into public view daily on cable TV and in the halls of Congress. Meetings at the White House were often described as tense. One this week was called "contentious bordering on panicky."
One member likened the conclusion of this stretch to "the last scene in Road Warrior."
"Lots of death and destruction," the member said, describing the film. "We were all fired up and ready to go. We're going to finally take out Obamacare and replace it with conservative health care... to have that grind to a halt because of infighting within our own conference is demoralizing."
House Speaker Paul Ryan repeatedly said that the transition from opposition party to governing party was inevitably going to be difficult. "Growing pains," Ryan called it.
Add to that an unorthodox administration and unpredictable President, and all sides are sitting in the midst of a time that appears to be some combination of learning experience and soul-searching moment. 
It won't get easier.
Even as Ryan said that flexibility had been built into what, by all accounts, was an ambitious legislative agenda and calendar, there are no easy wins on the horizon. The deadline for funding the government is April 28. Ryan and his colleagues working on tax reform are clear-eyed about the haul ahead on that front.
A major infrastructure package -- a Trump priority -- is rife with ideological landmines. And there's still health care. On that, Ryan made clear Thursday, conversations will continue -- even if he implicitly acknowledged that the consensus they both seek and need, is far from a sure thing.
"There are more ideas that we're working on, and that's why we're going to keep working in the days and weeks ahead to go and find that consensus and try and get this bill done," Ryan said before leaving town Thursday.
Now, lawmakers have two weeks at home to think about what went wrong.
Broken trust
One GOP lawmaker put the blame squarely at the feet of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, accusing the group of never being able to cut a deal in good faith.
"In this process, we're based 100% on the honor system. There's no contracts here. We cut deals on everything. We talk and we don't even shake hands. It's just 'we're going to do this,' and that's how you move forward," the member told CNN.
"This process cannot work if you have folks who are willing to ask for things, negotiate, get what they want, tell you they're going to be with you and then a half an hour later back out," the lawmaker added. "This process breaks down entirely."
Before the health care bill was even released at the beginning of March, Republicans were already dubious of one another. Conservatives were accusing leadership of keeping legislative text under lock and key. Members grumbled that their first glimpses at the draft had come from media reports.
Sen. Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican, led the Washington press corps in made-for-TV moment as he knocked on doors in the Capitol and demanded that staffers show him drafts of the bill that only Republican members of the relevant committees were permitted to see.
Rep. Tim Murphy, a Republican from Pennsylvania and "the only practicing psychologist in elected federal office" put his GOP colleagues on the couch Thursday.
"I've practiced psychology for 41 years and I wouldn't be practicing psychology if everyone got along," Murphy said. "I just see that as a normal part of the process. Don't worry. We'll be OK. Everybody, just calm down, and we'll continue to move forward."
'Contentious bordering on panicky'
It wasn't just House Republicans struggling to find common ground.
In a Wednesday night meeting on White House grounds between top House leaders and Vice President Mike Pence, West Wing staff were described as "contentious bordering on panicky" by one GOP aide and the overall tone of the meeting described as "intense" by another source familiar with the matter.
The interaction demonstrated the there was also a clear split between the White House and House GOP leaders on the path forward. 
In that meeting, according to three people briefed on the interaction, Pence and White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus made clear that progress needed to be shown on health care immediately and flatly suggested Ryan put the bill on the floor before the end of the week.
The point, according to sources, was that Republicans -- and Ryan's position as speaker -- were in political danger if leaders failed to move forward on an issue they had campaigned on for seven years.
But damaging politically or not, a simple reality remained, the House leaders made clear: the health care bill still didn't have the votes it needed to pass.
In fact, a fully baked final proposal wasn't even close to complete. As a compromise -- and an effort to give the White House their show of progress, Ryan set in motion a plan to include one area that was agreed upon into the original bill. And he made sure he was flanked by members of his conference -- from committee chairs to representatives from each of the warring caucuses.
The public message: all is well. The private reality: not so much.
Pence takes charge?
Pence asserted himself this week as the quarterback who could save the repeal and replace effort and Ryan had kept his distance, both cognizant that the dynamics that sank the initial effort hadn't changed, and that an overt second push by leadership was likely to snuff out any organic conversations between rank-and-file lawmakers and caucus groups that House leaders were quietly encouraging.
But as the week moved along and Pence and his team put proposals on the table designed to bring the House Freedom Caucus into the fold, it had become abundantly clear to leaders that the efforts weren't helping the overall vote count -- and instead were likely hurting it.
Pence's efforts to reengage talks between the moderate Tuesday Group and the Freedom Caucus backfired with members on both sides confused about what had actually been offered to them. Tuesday Group lawmakers insisted they'd been promised nothing more than giving states the opportunity to wave some Obamacare regulatory requirements like essential health benefits, which set standards of the kind of coverage an insurer must provide.
The Freedom Caucus, meanwhile, insisted it was offered more including the opportunity for states to apply for waivers to repeal the community rating provision, which dictates insurers cannot charge people more for insurance based off of medical history.
Allowing states to repeal that provision was a non-starter for many across the conference.
"There are a lot of provisions that I've campaigned on for four election cycles that are part of the law now that I want to preserve," Chief Deputy Whip Patrick McHenry told reporters Wednesday.
"So if you look at the cross section of the conference they have similar positions about similar provisions -- preexisting condition, guarantee issue and medical underwriting are components of that," McHenry added. "Community rating you can talk about changes in shifting there so you have a better participation in the insurance market place. You can have trials. You can do a number of different things around this, but the core provisions here are really important protections."
'Lucy with the football'
Adding to Republican pressure and the public distrust growing among their ranks was voices coming from the outside groups that anything short of the fuller repeal was unacceptable.
On Wednesday morning, Heritage Action for America Chief Executive Michael Needham held a call with reporters blasting moderates and accusing them of holding negotiations hostage.
"There's not momentum at this point and it's because of the intransigence of the Tuesday Group," Needham told reporters on the call. "It calls into question their commitment to the basic tenets of the Republican Party."
Moderates fired back.
"It's not true. We've been trying to be constructive," Rep. Tom MacArthur, a New Jersey Republican and a leader of the Tuesday Group told reporters as he shuffled onto the elevator.
"I'm afraid that the Freedom Caucus continues to play Lucy with the football and keeps moving the goal posts and I believe, from what I've heard, they're less than genuine in trying to get to 'yes,'" Rep. Chris Collins, a New York moderate, said.

